# Databases

<p align="justify">Amazon cloud database services comprises a SQL-compatible database called Aurora -which is Relational Database Service (RDS)-, DynamoDB NoSQL database, ElastiCache in-memory data store, Redshift data warehouse, Neptune graph database. On the other hand database options of Azure includes SQL-based options which are SQL Database, Database for MySQL and Database for PostgreSQL. It also has a Data Warehouse service, as well as Cosmos DB and Table Storage for NoSQL. Redis Cache is its in-memory service and the Server Stretch Database is its hybrid storage service designed specifically for organizations that use Microsoft SQL Server in their own data centers.</p>

Service | AWS | Azure
--------| ----| ------
**Relational DB** | <a href= "https://aws.amazon.com/rds/"> Amazon RDS </a> | <a href= "https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/product-categories/databases/"> SQL, MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB </a>
**Non-relational DB** | <a href= "https://aws.amazon.com/dynamodb/"> DynamoDB</a> | <a href= "https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/introduction"> Cosmos, Table Storage </a>
**In-Memory Service** | <a href= "https://aws.amazon.com/elasticache/">ElastiCache (Redis and Memcached)</a> | <a href= "https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/cache/"> RedisCache </a>
**Graph DB** | <a href= "https://aws.amazon.com/neptune/">Neptune</a> ||
**Data Warehouse** | <a href= "https://aws.amazon.com/redshift/">Amazon Redshift</a> | <a href= "https://azure.microsoft.com/en-gb/services/sql-data-warehouse/">SQL Data Warehouse</a>

<p align="justify">Amazon RDS is available on several database instance types which can be chosen from six familiar database engines including Amazon Aurora, PostgreSQL, MySQL, MariaDB, Oracle Database, and SQL Server. AWS Database Migration Service can be used to easily migrate or replicate existing databases to Amazon RDS. Amazon RDS comes with many advantages. It is easy to manage and scale. With mysql instance, it offers free service up to 20GB. However, for other services it charges.  It automatically backups of a database and transaction logs and automatically creates a snapshot of a database. These snapshots store in s3 and they are kept unless a user explicitly delete them. One of the RDS drawbacks is creates many instances to scale up that’s why it is an expensive solution. Another drawback is flexibility. It limits the number of configurations such as geo-distributed master-slave configuration. It does not give users to have full control of instance and control over parameters.</p> 

<p align="justify">In Azure MySQL supports InnoDB and Memory engines however it does not support MyISAM, BLACKHOLE, ARCHIVE and FEDERATED. It offers scalability and ease of deployment but it causes lack of flexibility and performance. One of the main advantages is that rollback is straightforward and it automatically backups of a server and there is no additional cost for backup storage up to usage of all provisioned server storage. One of the drawbacks is that it does not provide free storage. Automated migration between major database engine versions is currently not supported.</p>

<p align="justify">AWS DynamoDB allows a user to store unlimited amount of data. It can scale horizontally by expanding a single table over multiple server. It is cost effective because it provides one year free tier  which allows more than 40 million database operation. It automatically replicate data across multiple availability zones in a region. One of the drawback of AWS DynamoDB is that it can be deployed on AWS not on individual desktop or server. It does not allow join operations, triggers and server side scripts. Moreover it provides only RESTful HTTP API which is another disadvantage of AWS DynamoDB. On the other hand, Azure Cosmos DB allows server side scripts and provides integration with Hadoop. Also, it provides SQL-like query language whereas AWS does not provide. Azure Cosmos DB allows to access variety of API such as SQL, JavaScript, Azure Table Storage and MongoDB unlike AWS that’s why it can support multiple data models using one backend which means that it can be used for document, key value, relational and graph models. Lastly, both of them support ACID transactions.</p>
